= Debug System Terminology
Tim Newsome <tim@sifive.com>
v0.1, Jan 16, 2016

There's at least some confusion in the group because not everybody uses the
same terms. Let's use these ones to avoid that:

== Features

Run control::
    Halt, step, and resume a hart.  Set breakpoints.  Access GPRs, CSRs, other
    registers, and memory.
Self-hosted debug::
    Debugging where software running on the target system is the thing that
    allows run control of the thing you're debugging. Eg. running gdb on Linux,
    and gdbserver on a bare metal target.
External debug::
    Debugging a system without making any assumptions about the software
    running on that system.
Debug monitor::
    Software run on a bare metal system that allows for self-hosted debug.
Trace::
    Have a core emit what it’s doing in real time.

== Components

These components exist in every debug spec, although depending on the details
they may be simple pass-through so are not explicitly mentioned.

image::figures/terminology.png[Components]

Platform::
    An SoC or similar.
Debug Transport Module (DTM)::
    Module that provides access to the SDBUS.
System Debug Module Bus (SDBUS)::
    Bus that allows Debug Transport Modules to access the System Debug Module.
System Debug Module (SDM)::
    A single module in a Platform that provides a standard interface to
    debugging up to 1024 harts.
System Debug Module Address Space (SDAS)::
    The address space serviced by the System Debug Module.
Hart Debug Bus (HDBUS)::
    Bus that allows the SDM to access a Hart Debug Unit, Trigger Unit, and
    Trace Unit. Depending on the design, either one may be a master and/or
    slave.
Hart Debug Unit (HDU)::
    Part of a RISC-V core that enables and supports debugging of a single hart.
Trigger Unit::
    Part of a RISC-V core that supports hardware triggers in a hart.
Trace Unit::
    Part of a RISC-V core that supports trace in a hart.
System Bus::
    The bus that is used for the most common operations in the SoC. Typically
    this will have one or more cores as bus masters, and memory and peripherals
    as bus slaves.  Depending on the design, the System Bus may be used as
    SDBUS and/or HDBUS.

== Other

JTAG::
    De facto standard transport for external debug, but really developed for
    post-manufacture test. It's a simple 4-wire serial interface.
